I said it's very good to see you is
being here tonight part of your
community service yes I just had an
inkling so well Jane you've been
arrested how many times over the last
few months I'm curious about this five
five times over the last few months and
explain why you've been getting arrested
you're not like we are facing a climate
crisis yes we have ten years to try to
avoid a tipping point maybe less maybe
less maybe less beyond which it will be
a real catastrophe all the scientists
agree and so about five months ago I
wanted to try to figure out what I could
do as a famous person to raise people's
awareness of the urgency of the crisis
and so with green pieces help I moved to
Washington DC and started what we're
calling fire drill Fridays and every
Friday a lot of scientists and experts
and people from all over the country and
a few celebrities came and joined me and
because we think it should be the new
normal we engaged in civil disobedience
nonviolent civil disobedience and wrist
arrests as dr.
Lily you all you got arrested too right
one time oh okay it pales in comparison
are you guys competing this is Uzi
what point is that you're willing to put
your body on the line yes to say wake up
everybody this is a catastrophe and so
many people around the country have
expressed an interest in doing it where
they live over 7,000 people so with
Greenpeace we're gonna roll it out
across the country now tell me about the
actual process of being arrested and
what are you put into jail well you have
to get arrested several times like you
get you got arrested three times and
then you're given a court date if you
get arrested again you're kept overnight
which I was oh but you know I'm white so
I was given press and famous I was put
in a cell by myself I've been in jail
with not by myself and I wasn't treated
so nice but this time I was by myself
with the cockroaches and I had a guard
outside the cell I don't know who the
guard was guarding me from except maybe
other guards that was kind of spooky and
I you know about 20 hours and you eat
bologna sandwiches and well yeah and
then you get let out you pay money and
you know did you get Bologna Lily got
Bologna
you don't know Bologna well no yeah they
I've got nothing things no and unless
you do it a bunch of times you get
detained sometimes for a long time
because it was we had three over 300
people so it takes a long time are you
in handcuffs we run in plastic
yeah plastic you know full size yeah and
are they'd once you get in they cut the
cheap ones off of you and they put these
costly black ones that have a black
plastic key
oh so you actually handcuffed while
you're in a constant mastic same as the
other ones but they're just more
creatively wrought I did not know I
thought once you get into the cell you
are now released from your handcuffs but
it's not a cell it's a warehouse this is
oh this is when you're just arrested
it's not even a felony it's a Home Depot
yeah
yeah shopping done while you're there
yeah a lot of organizing you can talk to
each other we know great for me because
you're a lot of equally spirited people
with the same same feelings about the
planet and you're together so you have
invented to raise a ruckus yeah well I
had a nice lady named Joyce who and she
sent us some earrings this is one of the
most famous mug shots ever this is from
1970 is this the first time you were
arrested for civil disobedience that
wasn't what was that all right the next
Nixon came up with a bunch of the guy
that arrested me in the Cleveland
Airport said that the White House had
ordered him to arrest me and they they
accused me of smuggling drugs which they
later found out were vitamins maybe Lily
could use some of those vitamins and
Lily have you been arrested before this
no but I should have been on what
charges you have been arrested oh gosh I
yeah I was a teenage shoplifter and
that's understandable
uh-huh what would you steal Oh I'd still
like sweater sets uh-huh how would you
do it how do you get out of the store
with a sweater set well I had a friend
who I have to say she was uh she's a it
was a dear precious friend of mine she's
married Henry Ford she was his third
wife but I don't want to bring that up
because I'm bringing an innocent person
in too well she was your accomplice it
sounds like she was innocent play first
chair violin in the school orchestra she
always had her violin case
oh we tell her to put the bad girls were
tell her to put her violin in her locker
and go downtown with us and then of
course we'd meet her and we put all the
they never so she was your mule in a way
yeah
we go out of a place and she'd come and
she looked perfectly wholesome Wow did
they never suspect the violinists they
really don't J what you did you got that
you were scheduled to receive an award
an achievement award at BAFTA the
British Film Awards but you couldn't
because you were in jail so this is a
straight this is a pretty great
acceptance as far as not being showing
up to accept your reward this is how it
should be done
[Applause]
the Stanley Kubrick's Britannia Award
from excellence in films thank you I'm
sorry
[Applause]
season six of Grace and Franky is on
Netflix now we'll be right back after
this where ever we realized there must
be a lot of people in the same exact
situation that I was in if only there
was a sleek stylish product that could
help you get off the toilet without
making you feel you were in a hospital
well now there is rise I think that's a
that's a good idea it's gonna be a thing
yeah when you're older you do need that
do you really is that something you like
really think you'd use you have to be a
quite a bit older
uh-huh right sure you know or else have
very failed cool I had a hip replacement
and I instru before I even knew that
they wrote this thing about the toilet
and I tried to get up off the toilet and
I grabbed up the toilet paper holder and
tore it out of the wall couldn't get up
oh so you know for somebody like that it
would have been great yeah I mean maybe
life will imitate art and this will
become an actual product yeah I think
it'd be great for roommates who are in
the bathroom too long also you could
just press a button you know not a bad
idea so this is the second to final
season of Grayson Frankie why it why if
you decided because I know that show is
very popular and it will become the
longest running series on Netflix as of
next season all right are you sick of
each other what's going on well no we're
not you're not sick of each other I miss
her when I'm not with her oh yeah yes
she does and I miss her and my mother
know we get together in between even
when you know not just to get arrested
but we do a lot of stuff so you feel
like you guys by the way speaking of
getting arrested Jane would you ever
like would you ever speak to Donald
Trump about climate change because I
feel like he's pretending
he doesn't believe the day after his
election I I had this idea cuz you know
I've been married a few times and I
understand the male ego I figured what I
would do is I would try to get the most
gorgeous brilliant blonde voluptuous
climate activists yes Pamela Anderson is
a clown activist and there are others
and I was going to go and take a meeting
with Donald and we were going to get on
our knees what and we know the line is
the effective line would be you will be
the hero for all time of the entire
world you will save the world people
will bow down before you if you just do
these things and then we would give him
a list of things to do when Pamela was
ready to do it and what happened I got
the number four I call Jared Jared you
from Subway
[Laughter]
you said Ivanka was the environmentalist
in the family like you can only have one
and so I called her she called me back
uh-huh and I told her my idea and she
left she did yeah she said she'd try to
set it up and I never heard from oh well
maybe she's been working on it maybe
there's someone better why don't you
call like minuchin or something yep
maybe the kind he's the kind of guy cuz
he's the money guy yeah yeah are you
guys gonna get arrested again well we're
doing the fire drill Friday's all around
the country okay people are interested
they can text Jane two eight seven seven
eight seven seven okay Greenpeace is
facilitating all of that but we're
starting in California February 7th
February 7th at 11:00 a.m. at City Hall
join us and Grayson
Netflix Lily Tomlin and Jane Fonda
everybody thank you
I am Jimmy Kimmel give back this holiday
season buy my new book the serious goose
I wrote it and illustrated it all the
money I make goes to children's
hospitals across the country so you know
what to do